IN-ORGANIC-FERTILIZERS
In-organic fertilzers and their behaviour over plants

Inorganic fertilizers such as ammonium sulfate or ammonium phosphate are often called commercial or synthetic fertilizers because they go through a manufacturing process, although many of them come from naturally occurring mineral deposits.

Inorganic fertilizer is synthetic, comprised of minerals and synthetic chemicals. Inorganic nitrogen is commonly made from petroleum.
NITROGENOUS FERTILIZERS
    Nitrogenous Fertilizers. The nitrogenous fertilizer industry includes the production of synthetic ammonia, nitric acid, ammonium nitrate, and urea. Synthetic ammonia and nitric acid are used primarily as intermediates in the production of ammonium nitrate and urea fertilizers
What it does?
Nitrogen is absorbed by the plant roots in two forms: nitrate form (NO3) and ammonical form (NH4). Most of the crop plants prefer nitrogen in nitrate form; but paddy and few other higher plants prefer nitrogen in ammonical form. Ammonical form of nitrogen is however, easily covertible into nitrate form. Most of the fertilizers contain nitrogen in these two available forms. Urea, however, contains nitrogen in amide form but this form of nitrogen is swiftly converted by soil micro-organisms into ammonical form and then into nitrate form. Based on the forms of nitrogen they contain, nitrogenous fertilizers are classified into following four categories, viz. (1) nitrate fertilizers, (2) ammonical fertilizers, (3) ammonical-nitrate fertilizers, and (4) amide fertilizers.

TYPES OF NITROGENOUS FERTILIZERS
ammonia liquor
ammonium nitrate
ammonium sulfate
anhydrous ammonia
aqua ammonia
fertilizers, mixed, produced in nitrogenous fertilizer plants
fertilizers, natural
nitric acid
nitrogen fertilizer solutions
plant foods, mixed in nitrogenous fertilizer plants
urea.
Management of Nitrogenous Fertilizers
Nearly all the nitrogenous fertilizers are highly amenable to losses and most of the crops required nitrogen during their entire growth duration, application in splits is necessary to ensure maximum utilization of fertilizer by crop plants.
A greater number of splits may be given for perennial as well as long-duration crops.
For rice cultivars of medium duration, nitrogen-based fertilizers should be applied in three splits, first as basal dose, second at maximum tillering stage, and third at panicle initiation stage.
PHOSPHATE FERTILIZERS
    The most commonly used phosphatic fertilizers are Diammonium Phosphate (DAP), Monoammonium Phosphate (MAP), NPKs, and SSP. DAP is the world's most widely used phosphorus fertilizer. It is popular due to its relatively high nutrient content and its excellent physical properties.
ABOUT
Phosphorus fertilizers are manufactured from rock phosphate (Figure 2.2), but rock phosphate itself seldom is used directly as a fertilizer because of its low availability of phosphorus and transport cost. Instead, finely ground rock phosphate is treated with sulfuric acid to yield monocalcium phosphate monohydrate and is known as superphosphate. About 85–90% of phosphate in superphosphate is water soluble. In another process, finely ground rock phosphate is reacted with sulfuric acid to produce phosphoric acid (54% P2O5), also called green acid, and gypsum, which is removed as a by-product. Phosphoric acid usually is not used directly as a fertilizer because it is corrosive, but is used to manufacture other fertilizers. The reaction of phosphoric acid with finely ground rock phosphate yields triple superphosphate (TSP). MAP and DAP are the products of reactions between phosphoric acid and ammonia. Phosphoric acid can be heated to drive off water to produce superphosphoric acid (68–70% P2O5), which when reacted with ammonia yields ammonium polyphosphate. Phosphorus fertilization rates often are given in terms of P, not P2O5. The proportion of P in P2O5 is used to calculate the equivalent quantity of P in a fertilizer: 2 P/P2O5 = (2 × 31 g/mol)/142 g/mol = 0.437. Thus, the percentage of P in a 12-24-12 fertilizer is: 24% P2O5 × 0.437 = 10.5% P.

Phosphorus cycle
The use of phosphorus fertilizers and hence the rate of phosphorus accumulation in agricultural soils increased almost three-fold between 1960 and 1990. However, the rate of phosphorus accumulation has declined somewhat since 1990. The current flux of phosphorus to the oceans is now triple that of background rates, viz. 22 Tg P yr−1 versus 8 Tg P yr−1. The use of nitrogen and phosphorus in the form of fertilizers are necessitated by cropping to fulfill in the food demand of a growing population. Fertilizer application should be site-specific as illustrated by the three maize-based cropping systems in Table 2.1. Only with this kind of approach optimum crop production with minimum environmental pollution is possible (Vitousek et al., 2009).

PRODUCTION

POTTASIUM FERTILIZERS
The main potassium fertilisers used in agriculture are: Muriate of potash (potassium chloride). As now scslold, it usually contains 60% K2O. It is the most common source of potash for farm use and is also the main potash ingredient for compound fertilisers containing potassium.     The most commonly used phosphatic fertilizers are Diammonium Phosphate (DAP), Monoammonium Phosphate (MAP), NPKs, and SSP. DAP is the world's most widely used phosphorus fertilizer. It is popular due to its relatively high nutrient content and its excellent physical properties.
TYPES OF POTTASIUM FERTILIZERS
Potassium Chloride 0-0-62
Potassium Sulfate 0-0-53
Monopotassium Phosphate 0-52-34
Kelp Meal 2-0-4
Blossom Green 2-6-8
Sulfate of Potash Magnesia 0-0-21.5
Potassium chloride (Muriate of potash) (KCl; 0-0-60)
Potassium-magnesium sulfate (K2SO4-2MgSO4; 0-0-22-22S-11Mg)
Potassium thiosulfate (K2S2O3; 0-0-25-17S)
Potassium nitrate (KNO3; 13-0-44)
How do you use potassium fertilizer?
Apply granular potash fertilizers directly on top of the soil. If you're using a solid form of potash, such as potassium chlorate or potassium sulfate, apply it as a topdressing before planting or mix it into the top layer of soil near your seeds at planting time.

When should potassium fertilizer be applied?
Potash fertilizer (0-0-60) can be applied in fall or spring with similar efficacy. Potash is much more soluble than lime or gypsum, similar in solubility to MAP or DAP, but slightly less soluble than urea or ammonium nitrate.

COMPOUND FERTILIZERS
Compound fertilizers contain two or more nutrients and are also known as multinutrient fertilizers. A complex fertilizer refers to a compound fertilizer formed by combining ingredients to react chemically. Compound fertilizers can also be produced by blending two or more granular fertilizers of similar size.    
OVER VIEW ON COMPOUND FERTILIZERS
Compound fertilizers are generally highly concentrated (containing boosted amounts of nutrients and little filler), so that they require less expenditure of labor and capital than do simple fertilizers for application, storage, and hauling. Compound fertilizers have good physical properties; they do not cake and they scatter well when applied by machine. The nutrient ratios of compound fertilizers vary, depending on the method of production, the initial components, and the requirements of the plants fertilized.


Compound fertilizers have been used extensively since 1950, especially in the United States, Canada, England, the Netherlands, Japan, France, and Italy, where they constitute more than 50 percent of all fertilizer produced. In the USSR, plans for 1971–75 called for an increase in the share of highly concentrated and complex fertilizers to 80 percent of all fertilizer production.


Compound fertilizers are classified as either two-element (phosphorus-potassium, nitrogen-phosphorus, and nitrogen-potassium) or three-element (nitrogen-phosphorus-potassium). Depending on the method of production, they are considered complex, complex-mixed, or mixed. Compound fertilizers are used for all crops, whereas complex fertilizers are used primarily for industrial crops, such as cotton and sugar beets.

Complex fertilizers are obtained through the chemical interaction of the initial components—ammonia, phosphoric acid, nitric acid, phosphorites, apatites, and natural potassium salts. They are produced in granulated form. The most common types of complex fertilizers in the USSR are Ammofos (nutrient content, 56–64 percent), Diammofos (71–74 percent), Nitrofos (38 percent), potassium nitrate (57 percent), Nitroammofoska (50–54 percent), and Nitrofoska (36 percent). The possibilities are promising for complex liquid fertilizers, potassium metaphosphate, and ammonium polyphosphate.

REFERENCE
Spravochnaia knigapo khimizatsii sel’skogo khoziaistva. Edited by V. M. Borisov. Moscow, 1969.

COMPLETE FERTILIZERS
Fertilizers containing all three primary nutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium) are called complete fertilizers. If high levels of phosphorus and potassium are already present in the soil, supply nitrogen alone.    
EXAMPLES ON COMPLETE FERTILIZERS
Dr. Earth Bulb Food.
Down To Earth Acid Mix.
Ecoscraps Leafy Greens Plant Food.
Espoma Garden-Tone.
Foxfarm Grow Big, Big Bloom, and Tiger Bloom.
Growganica Kelp It Real Seaweed Extract.
Natural Innovative Solutions Pure Ground Eggshells.
Vigoro Tomato and Vegetable.
Inorganic fertilizers such as ammonium sulfate or ammonium phosphate are often called commercial or synthetic fertilizers because they go through a manufacturing process, although many of them come from naturally occurring mineral deposits.

Inorganic fertilizer is synthetic, comprised of minerals and synthetic chemicals. Inorganic nitrogen is commonly made from petroleum.