Weeds and types of its strains

weed, general term for any plant growing where it is not wanted. Weeds interfere with a variety of human activities, and many methods have been developed to suppress or eliminate them. These methods vary with the nature of the weed itself. The many reasons for controlling weeds become more complex with the increasing development of technology. Plants become weeds as a function of time and place.

BLUE DREAM STRAINS
Blue Dream is a Hybrid, but it is Sativa-dominant at about 60 percent Sativa and 40 percent Indica. Most importantly, this strain tends to have a high cannabinoid content, specifically where THC is concerned at between 15 and 27 percent.
Blue Dream is the result of crossing Blueberry and Haze, both of which have a significant reputation when it comes to noteworthy strains. Blue Dream is one of those strains that come across with one primary flavor attribute, which happens to be sweet berries.
What is the typical usage of it ?
Blue Dreams is the perfect blend of Sativa and Indica. As a Sativa-dominant hybrid strain, Blue Dream is typically used during the day. This strain is said to provide uplifting and cerebral effects that can help with creativity, motivation, and heightened focus. Blue Dream is also popular among medical marijuana patients for its ability to provide relief from pain, anxiety, depression, muscle spasms, and stress. This strain can also be used to help with insomnia.

What is the growing nature of it ?
If you’re a newbie looking for an easy strain to grow, Blue Dream is your gal. She can thrive in both outdoor and indoor grows. The flowering time on this gem is around 10 weeks for indoor systems, or late September to early October for outdoor set-ups. The yield is high with around twenty-one ounces per plant, and in order to keep this gal happy indoors, you’ll want to top early as these beauties can grow upwards of five feet.

How to spot it ?
Almost any dispensary will have Blue Dream, but a quality example should have medium-large buds with noticeable trichomes and a distinct sweet smell. There is a lot of poorly grown commercial Blue Dream around because it is such a productive variety, so you may have to weed (!) through some crap to find a sample that lives up to its lofty reputation.

What are the effects ?
With a relatively high THC range that averages at a low of 17% and a high of 24%, this dreamy bud has more than just good looks and flavor to bring to the table. The CBD and CBN levels reach 2% and 1% respectively, making this a popular strain for treating a myriad of ailments. Blue Dream's high is all the best parts of its parentage wrapped neatly into a flavor-packed, beautifully balanced package. It begins with a cerebral rush, bringing with it motivation and heightened focus, so enjoy this through any jam-packed schedule. As the high builds you fall into an ultra-relaxed state, leaving you feeling hazy and totally calm.

SOUR DIESEL STRAINS
Sour Diesel is one of the best diesel weed strains that the West coast of the United States has to offer to the marijuana world. It is a popular and potent flower with a generous yield.
Sour Diesel is a Sativa-leaning hybrid cannabis consisting of 90% Sativa. This diesel weed is an offspring of Chemdawg and Super Skunk. You can see where it inherited its potency and diesel-like smell. Its THC level is about 19-25% but can go up to 30%.
Are there different strains of Sour diesel ?
Sour Diesel is a much-desired blend of four strains that are standouts on their own. The sativa dominance is obvious in the stretch and light green foliage. With room outdoors, it can be left alone to produce impressive flower-laden trees. Indoors where height may be a problem set rooted clones to flowering immediately to produce 90-130cm plants. Pinching and tying the tops controls height and improves yields.

What is the growing nature of it?
Though Sour Diesel is beloved by many, it's not recommended for the novice grower. This strain is known to grow very tall and lanky, and should be grown by people with experience in proper pruning and topping techniques. Sour Diesel flowers in 9-11 weeks, and is typically recommended for an outdoor grow due to how much stretching this plant can do. It's preferred if it can have space to grow. This strain can be a bit susceptible to powdery mildew, so you'll want to take extra care in keeping the humidity levels maintained --- under 60% humidity is a safe bet for Sour Diesel.

What are the parent strains of Sour Diesel ?
Sour Diesel is rumored to be the “whoopsie” child of the hybrid Chemdawg with the indica Super Skunk. The exact origins of sour diesel are hard to define because it was first cultivated during the 80s or 90s in New York City’s unlicensed market, where no one was accurately keeping records of cannabis plant’s genealogy at the time.

What are the effects of Sour Diesel ?
The effects begin as a surge of cerebral energy, which promotes creativity and a feeling of get-up-and-go. Sour Diesel is a great wake-and-bake strain to get your day started, especially if you’re a remote worker that wants some mental stimulation without worrying about how skunky-delicious you smell. The strain is invigorating and that gives it its main medicinal uses. For those suffering from anxiety and depression, Sour Diesel can help through sheer mental energy. The stimulation and brain-electrifying feelings would get anyone up and moving.


CHEESE STRAIN
    Cheese is a famous strain that originated in the United Kingdom. The strain is a rare female phenotype of Skunk #1 a cross between Afghani (indica), Acapulco Gold (sativa), and Columbian Gold (sativa).
It first appeared between 1988 and 1989 and was quickly cloned and passed on. As a female phenotype, the original strain is only available as a clone, but other breeders have imitated it in seed form by crossing a female Cheese with other indica strains.
Where did cheese come from ?
The original Cheese strain emerged in the 1980s under mysterious circumstances. Legend has it that California cultivator Sam “the Skunkman” moved to the Netherlands to get serious about growing. He brought with him the iconic strain of his creation, Skunk #1. This became popular among Dutch cultivators because of its quick turnaround time. A recurring problem, however, was that the smell from the plants was too strong; so strong it would be hard to avoid attracting unwanted attention. When one batch of Skunk seeds found its way to the UK in 1988, something peculiar happened.

What is the growing nature of it ?
Growers created this strain with the intention of high yields (14 ounces per plant) and increased trichome production. This is one strain that we would recommend for beginners that are just getting started. With little effort, your plants will flourish and produce ample, thick buds. Cheese can grow outdoors, but it's easier to maintain if you keep them inside. Count on your plants to flower within 9-10 weeks. Although this strain may be great for novice growers, it'll hit you like a punch if you're a novice consumer. Smoke with caution as this strain can lead to paranoia if your tolerance is not built. If you are looking for a strain that'll increase your appetite, Cheese can definitely assist you there.

What is the Appearance, Aroma & Flavor of cheese strain ?
Cheese reportedly tastes and smells like strong cheddar. It's sharp, slightly sour, earthy, and super distinct. Nugs of cheese are often bright green with thin wispy orange pistils.

What are the effects of cheese strain ?
Despite being indica-dominant, the strain is said to hit hard and fast. Users' first experience of increased happiness and waves of euphoria is followed by a powerful body-numbing high that leads to increased appetite. A few users report feeling more creative than lazy or tired, but the sedating indica effect is likely to be the most powerful, resulting in a couch-lock. Side effects include cottonmouth, giggles, and bloodshot eyes.

PINEAPPLE EXPRESS STRAIN
    Pineapple Express is a Sativa-Dominant Hybrid, falls under the INSPIRE category on our balance scale and is often used as a day strain.
G13 Labs created this strain of cannabis about five years before the film of the same name in 2008 but named it “Pineapple Express” after the film was released. Pineapple Express is said to have a tropical, mango, and pineapple flavor and scent.
What makes Pineapple Express one of the best hybrid strains around ?
It starts with an unbeatable flavor powered by a myrcene dominant terpene profile. Add in some potent Sativa-based effects and a pedigree that speaks for itself, and you have the makings of a truly legendary strain. Pineapple Express has a distinctly tropical aroma. It blends a powerful citrus scent with some sharper pine tones. Equal parts earthiness and sweetness round out this strain’s aroma profile. Those aromas transform to flavor when you spark this strain up, with its citrus aroma crystallizing into a distinct pineapple taste.

What is the growing nature of it ?
For growers, Pineapple Express grows in heavy nugs shaped like popcorn. It flowers in just over 7 weeks. To increase the strain’s potency, experienced growers recommend “supercropping” the strain. If you didn’t know, this means using bush-style growing techniques, setting up lights that are at least 600W, and regularly topping the plants. When done, the plant is dense, light green, and subtly purple-tinted.

What terpene is in Pineapple Express strain ?
The dominant isolates that create the funky sweet Pineapple Express terpene profile are Myrcene, Alpha-Pinene, and Beta-Caryophyllene. That mouth watering pineapple flavor, however, blooms on your palate after the initial sweetness recedes.

What are the effects of pineapple express strain ?
A 25% THC level on the high end means that even experienced users will probably enjoy the body buzz when they board the Pineapple Express. People who work creatively, especially at home, may find that the strain relieves their work anxieties – it’s known to be proficient at smashing writer’s blocks, for instance. Anxiety, stress, and mild aches and pains can fade as you drift, stimulated and focused, on the Pineapple currents. Pineapple Express provides a great respite for a busy mind, promoting focus and heightened clarity. It pairs great with laid-back creative tasks like writing and studying, as well as reading, fishing, crafts, and yoga.




TRAINWRECK STRAIN
    Trainwreck is a mind-bending, potent sativa with effects that hit like a freight train. Mexican and Thai sativas were bred with Afghani indicas to produce this Northern California staple, passing on a sweet lemon and spicy pine aroma.
Trainwreck is a Sativa-dominant hybrid strain of cannabis with a spicy taste reminiscent of pepper. Like many Sativa hybrids Trainwreck provides a very intense cerebral high with effects that are mood-enhancing and euphoric.
Is trainwreck a creeper ?
Train Wreck marijuana is known to many as a seriously potent creeper strain. Newbies beware. This strain hits you all at once so be careful, start out smoking small quantities and work your way up, otherwise you may regret it.

What is the growing nature of it ?
Trainwreck can grow well both indoors and outdoors. Plants of this strain grow fairly tall but the Indica in them causes them fill out well. Inside grown in hydro a single plant can yield up to 500 grams in a square meter. When grown in soil outside Trainwreck plants are ready for harvesting early October and can yield up to 700 grams. This strain flowers somewhere between eight and ten weeks. For the longest time Trainwreck was only available in clone form but more recently a few places have been able to recreate seeds of the strain.

What is the Appearance, Aroma & Flavor of trainwreck strain ?
If you're into pine and citrus-flavored cannabis, Trainwreck might be for you. On your exhale, you'll notice bright, lemon tones. Some people also notice hints of menthol. The flavor and smell is certainly pungent. Trainwreck's flavor also lingers in the mouth well after toking.

What are the effects of trainwreck strain ?
What makes Trainwreck different from many other hybrid strains is that it still displays its indica effects as well - covering the body in a nice, warm, pain-numbing buzz, after the initial sativa energy and focus. Trainwreck retains the lazy couchlock feelings of an indica and the cerebral stimulation of a sativa, making it an extremely popular and sought-after strain in cannabis dispensaries. Apart from the usual dryness of mouth and eyes, some users may experience paranoia, anxiety, and dizziness. Even with its indica effects intact, Trainwreck still provides a mostly-sativa high to help the consumer focus or regulate stress after traumatic events.



DURBAN POISON STRAIN
    Durban Poison is a pure South African sativa landrace. It is a bold and sticky variety that’s well adapted to a variety of growing conditions.
Durban Poison boasts a THC content of between 15% and 25%.Durban Poison is a good grow for newcomers to cultivation.
Is Durban Poison good for anxiety ?
Is Durban Poison good for anxiety? Durban Poison (Sativa) , A sweet, sweet sativa, is a great uplifting non-sedating strain. Energetic and creative effects are also commonly reported with this strain making it great for all day use, as well as to combat anxiety and depression.

What is the growing nature of it ?
Because of its hardy and time-tested genetics, Durban Poison is a good grow for newcomers to cultivation. It can reach 12 feet in height, and as such, can be successfully grown outdoors in warm, semi-humid climates with consistent daily temperatures between 72 to 80℉. Indoor growers will want to tame Durban Poison’s height by bending and pruning the spindly branches early on in the vegetative stage.

What is the Appearance, Aroma & Flavor of durban poison strain ?
Buds of Durban Poison are medium to large in size. Although they have a dense, compact structure typical of indica varieties, their long and tapered shape is more characteristic of sativas. The forest green leaves are offset by bright orange pistils, meant to catch pollen from male fertilizing plants. A coating of milky-white trichomes gives the cured flowers a light sheen and an incredibly sticky texture. Durban Poison has a classically dank smell punctuated by hints of sweet licorice. The flowers are pungent and skunky when broken open or burnt and give off a thick, lung-expanding smoke. The licorice aroma is evident on the exhale, along with the taste of sweet, almost cloying pine sap.

What are the effects of durban poison strain ?
Durban Poison has a clear, focused high that hits users right away. The amplification of sights and sounds may be initially disorienting, but in the right setting can slide into an active, buzzy head high. Almost entirely cerebral with no hints of debilitating heaviness or couchlock, this strain can be especially helpful for creative endeavors — it’s a great way to contemplate the nuances of an intense movie or a piece of music. Durban Poison can also be a strong social lubricant, helping smokers to feel chatty and more at ease. Any medical benefits are more mental than physical — this strain can confer a sense of mindfulness that is reported to help those perpetually distracted by depression, anxiety, and PTSD.